---
title: "28th ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Functional Programming (ICFP 2023): Call for Workshop and Co-Located Event Proposals"
timestamp: "12/1/2022 13:32:00"
---
        CALL FOR WORKSHOP AND CO-LOCATED EVENT PROPOSALS
                            ICFP 2023
 28th ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Functional Programming


                      September 4 - 9, 2023
                        Seattle, WA, USA
                    https://icfp23.sigplan.org/

The 28th ACM SIGPLAN International Conference on Functional
Programming will be held in Seattle, WA, USA on September 4 - 9,
2023, with the option of virtual participation. ICFP provides a forum
for researchers and developers to hear about the latest work on the
design, implementations, principles, and uses of functional
programming.

Proposals are invited for workshops (and other co-located events,
such as symposiums) to be affiliated with ICFP 2023 and sponsored by
SIGPLAN. These events should be less formal and more focused than
ICFP itself, include sessions that enable interaction among the
attendees, and foster the exchange of new ideas. The preference is
for one-day events, but other schedules can also be considered.

The workshops are scheduled to occur on September 4th (the day before
ICFP) and September 8-9th (the two days after ICFP).

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Submission details
 Deadline for submission:     December 22, 2022
 Notification of acceptance:  January  13, 2023

Prospective organizers of workshops or other co-located events are
invited to submit a completed workshop proposal form in plain text
format to the ICFP 2023 workshop co-chairs (Arthur Azevedo de Amorim
and Yannick Forster) via email to

   icfp-workshops-2023@googlegroups.com

by December 22, 2022. (For proposals of co-located events other than
workshops, please fill in the workshop proposal form and just leave
blank any sections that do not apply.) Please note that this is a
firm deadline.

Organizers will be notified whether their event proposal is accepted 
by January 13, 2023, and if successful, depending on the event, they
will be asked to produce a final report after the event has taken
place that is suitable for publication in SIGPLAN Notices.

The proposal form is available at:

http://www.icfpconference.org/icfp2023-files/icfp23-workshops-form.txt

Further information about SIGPLAN sponsorship is available at:

http://www.sigplan.org/Resources/Proposals/Sponsored/

----------------------------------------------------------------------

Selection committee

The proposals will be evaluated by a committee comprising the
following members of the ICFP 2023 organizing committee, together
with the members of the SIGPLAN executive committee.

 Workshop Co-Chair: Arthur Azevedo de Amorim       (Boston University)
 Workshop Co-Chair: Yannick Forster                     (Inria Nantes)
 General Chair:     Nikhil Swamy                  (Microsoft Research)
 Program Chair:     Sam Lindley              (University of Edinburgh)


----------------------------------------------------------------------

Further information

Any queries should be addressed to the workshop co-chairs (Arthur
Azevedo de Amorim and Yannick Forster), via email to
icfp-workshops-2023@googlegroups.com.

