---
layout: default
title: "SIGPLAN and Climate Change"
---

Airplane travel is a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions,
which in turn are a significant contributor to global warming and
attendant climate change.  SIGPLAN hosts several annual scientific
meetings at various locations throughout the world.  While we believe
such meetings are very important for furthering important research, we
would be remiss in not exploring possible mitigations. As such, we
have formed an ad hoc committee to study the climate impact of
conferences and possible steps that SIGPLAN might take in
response. The committee chair is [Benjamin
Pierce](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/), and its members include
[SIGPLAN EC](/ContactUs) members [Crista
Lopes](http://www.ics.uci.edu/~lopes/) and [Michael
Hicks](http://www.cs.umd.edu/~mwh/). An [interim
report](http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~bcpierce/papers/sigplan-climate-report.pdf)
summarizes a number of ideas under consideration, following intensive
discussions within the committee and with the overall community at
town hall meetings.

## Current action: Carbon Offsets (POPL'18)

For this year's POPL, we are experimenting with carbon offsets as a
mechanism for reducing the conference's net carbon impact.  The POPL
registration website includes [a
link](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/kompensieren/flug?locale=en) that
participants may choose to follow to reach an offset purchase page at
[atmosfair](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/kompensieren/flug?locale=en),
a major carbon offset vendor.  Participation is voluntary, and ACM is
not involved in the purchase in any way.  (We realize that offsets
might be easier to reimburse from research grants if they were
included in the conference registration fee.  We are investigating
whether this can be done for future conferences.)

Carbon offsets have the potential to reduce POPL's net carbon impact
while furthering sustainability and developmental goals. They help
fund projects that would not otherwise be economically feasible given
start-up costs or the means of the communities they are
servicing. Ideally, they address the potential trade-off between
reducing carbon emissions and furthering the progress of
less-developed parts of the world.  They are not a long-term solution
to the problem of carbon emissions from scientific conferences, but
they are a useful stopgap, slowing the overall growth of atmospheric
greenhouse gas concentrations while other fossil fuel reduction
strategies are being developed.  An excellent discussion of the pros
and cons of carbon offsets in general and of specific project types
can be found in a [recent
report](https://www.sei-international.org/mediamanager/documents/Publications/Climate/SEI-WP-2016-03-ICAO-aviation-offsets-biofuels.pdf)
from the Stockholm Environmental Institute.


[Atmosfair](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/organisationsform) is a
non-profit originally created as part of a research project by the
German Federal Ministry for the Environment. Its carbon offset
projects are
[registered](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/organisationsform) through
the UN Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) standard and are either
approved by or awaiting approval under the Gold Standard — these are
widely recognized vetting groups.  Projects that atmosfair supports
include:

- [Creating decentralized waste management
  systems](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/biogas_und_biomasse/indonesien)
  in Indonesia, which reduce the amount of methane released into the
  atmosphere.
- [Building biogas plants](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/nepal-biogas)
  in Nepal, which allow the conversion of animal manure into cooking
  gas. This means that people no longer need to use firewood to cook,
  decreasing deforestation and improving indoor air quality.
- [Distributing solar home
  systems](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/athiopien-solarhomesystems) in
  Ethiopia, allowing families to stop using carbon-emitting and
  inefficient kerosene lamps.

Atmosfair has worked with companies and organizations such as
[Cisco](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen),
[Dolby](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen),
[Merck](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/unternehmen), and
[Greenpeace](https://www.atmosfair.de/en/verwaltung-ngos-politik). Its
web site provides detailed background on its organization, policies,
standards, and projects.

For those that like comparison shopping, we can recommend
[CoolEffect](https://www.cooleffect.org) as another excellent carbon
offset vendor — for example, their project that funds [building
converters from cow manure to
biogas](https://www.cooleffect.org/content/project/community-biogas-program#What-it-does).
However, their web site is somewhat US-centric.
