---
layout: default
title: "Policies Regarding Review of Conference Papers"
---
**Contact With Authors**   
Members of the program committee and external reviewers should not
interact with authors of submitted papers directly, particularly
before accept/reject notices have been sent. All interactions with
authors should go through the program chair. This restriction
serves two purposes. First, it preserves the anonymity of the
reviewers, and second, it supports greater fairness because authors
are interacted with in a more uniform way.   

**Confidentiality**   
As a program committee member or external reviewer, you will have
access to unpublished works. The specific goal of the following
policy is to limit exposure of these unpublished works to those
individuals that are absolutely necessary to ensure proper review
of the submission.   
Papers under consideration for publication should not be
distributed or disclosed to any individual, except for the explicit
purpose of review. Papers that are accepted should still be
considered unpublished until the actual day of the conference, and
should not be discussed outside the program committee without
explicit permission from the authors (through the PC chair).   
As necessary, external reviewers of papers may be required, and
submissions can be disclosed to such individuals in these cases.
Except in unusual cases, program committee members and external
reviewers should provide written feedback so that the entire
program committee and the authors of the paper can benefit from the
direct expression of their opinion. All reviewers must be made
aware of the Review Policies as contained in this document. In
particular, reviewers should understand that submissions are
unpublished works, and in no case should they duplicate them, pass
them on to other people, or discuss them with people other than the
members of the program committee. The program chair should keep a
record of the external reviewers used to review submissions.  

**Objectivity**   
Reviewers are also faced with issues related to being able to
provide an objective review. In order to protect the integrity of
the review process, it is very important that even the impression
of a biased review process be avoided. Specifically, a conflict of
interest may prevent a reviewer from being able to provide an
unbiased review. A conflict of interest is defined as a situation
in which the reviewer can be viewed as being able to benefit
personally in the process of reviewing a paper. For example, if a
paper was written by a member of your own group, a current student,
your advisor, or a group that you are seen as being in close
competition with, then the outcome of the review process can have
direct benefit to your own status. If a conflict of interest
exists, then you should decline to review a paper.   
It may also be difficult to render an objective review for personal
reasons. For example, if a paper was written by an employee of the
same company, a former student, or a good friend, then you may or
may not feel capable of reviewing it fairly. In any case in which
you feel you may not be able to objectively review a paper, you
should discuss the matter with the program chair, and the two of
you should resolve the issue. In addition, the program chair should
alert the rest of the committee to the situation, so that nobody
can accuse a reviewer of concealing information (and so that if
your review is substantially different from others, we can at least
ask you to justify it).   

During the program committee meeting, any committee member who has
a conflict of interest regarding a paper (e.g., you regularly work
closely with the author) may be asked to leave the room for the
duration of the discussion.  
